# Theme guide

-   [Startup theme](#startup-theme)
-   [Get GIT repo](#get-git-repo)
-   [Theme structure](#theme-structure)
-   [NPM setup](#npm-setup)
-   [Development build](#development-build)
-   [Production build](#production-build)
-   [DeployHQ setup](#deployhq-setup)
-   [CSS: Foundation settings](#css-foundation-settings)
-   [CSS: Add foundation modules](#css-add-foundation-modules)
-   [CSS: Edit existing custom modules](#css-edit-existing-custom-modules)
-   [CCS: Add custom modules](#css-add-custom-modules)
-   [JS: Add foundation modules](#js-add-foundation-modules)
-   [JS: Edit existing custom modules](#js-edit-existing-custom-modules)
-   [JS: Add custom modules](#js-add-custom-modules)
-   [Solutions](#solutions)

## Startup theme

To start with the startup theme just download the zip version of `sqe-starter-legal-foundation` repo and install it on the website. Do the following steps right after the initial installation:

1. Rename theme folder and edit `style.css` (change theme name);
2. Edit `functions.php`: change `WEBSITE_NAME` and `WEBSITE_SLUG` definitions at the top of the file;
3. In the file `webpack.config.js` set **LOCAL_DOMAIN** variable to your local website url. Ex: **http://website-name.local**.
4. Set up NPM and files compilation (guides below);
5. Develop the theme (you can start with editing `src\css\_settings.scss` to set default theme styling);

Before pushing this theme to a new client-related repo, delete this **Startup theme** section from the **README.md** file, rename **sqe-starter-legal-foundation** to the actual theme slug and change git repo links.

## Get GIT repo

### (in case you want to change starter theme itself)

To install the theme from git within a command line navigate to `\theme\` folder in your WordPress installation and execute the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/SquareEyeLtd/sqe-starter-legal-foundation.git
```

Or you can create theme folder manually right away, navigate to the created folder within a command line and execute the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/SquareEyeLtd/sqe-starter-legal-foundation.git .
```

## Theme structure

### Source files

Source files are used for compilation and are located in `src` folder in the theme root:

```
\THEME_NAME\src\
|-- js
|   |-- theme.js # import foundation modules and custom modules here
|   |-- modules
|   |   |-- ... # custom JS modules
|-- css
|   |-- theme.scss # import foundation modules and custom modules here
|   |-- _settings.scss # foundation settings
|   |-- modules
|   |   |-- ... # custom CSS modules
```

### Compiled files

Compiled files are located in `dist` folder in the theme root and they will be generated when you enable the development mode (see further).

```
\THEME_NAME\dist\
|-- bundle.js # final JS file for enqueueing
|-- main.css # final CSS file for enqueueing
```

Those files are enqueued in `\functions\enqueue-scripts.php` file.

### Additional assets

You can add any additional CSS or JS files you need for the project inside `\assets\` folder and then enqueue them in `\functions\enqueue-scripts.php` file.

### Foundation

Foundation source files are added with NPM package, so they will be located within `node_modules` folder once you set NPM.

## NPM setup

Once you get the theme from the git you need to install all dependencies.

First, make sure that you have NPM installed on your computer:

-   [Windows](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/install-node-js-npm-on-windows)
-   [Mac](https://treehouse.github.io/installation-guides/mac/node-mac.html)

Once you got NPM installed, use command line to navigate to the theme folder and run the following command:

```
npm install # (installing all dependencies from package.json)
```

## Development build

The compilation is handled by **Webpack**. To start to work with **scss** and **js** files from `src` folder run the following command:

```
npm start
```

**(Not important)** Once you are done editing the files from `src` folder you can focus your cursor on the launched server and then press `Ctrl + C` on your keyboard and then `Y` key to stop the script from watching the changes.

## Production build

By default the final production build of the theme should be generated by DeployHQ. But if you want to create `dist` folder on your local and push the website manually, then use the following command to generate the final production version of the theme:

```
npm run build
```

## DeployHQ setup

Create a project in DeployHQ connected with the related website's repo and with the website's server. But before making the first deployment do the following:

1. Go to **Build Pipeline**
2. Click **New Command** button on the right
3. Pick **NPM**
4. Make sure that you have the following commands in the **command** field (those usually are set by default):

```
npm install --quiet
npm run build
```

5. Click **Create Build Command**
6. Go to **Deployments** page and make a new deployment.

**!!!** The first deployment will take a lot of time as the full **node_modules** folder will be pushed to the server. But the following deployments should be really quick.

## CSS: Foundation settings

`\src\css\_settings.scss` - use this file to change Foundation SASS settings like default colors, fonts, spacings etc.

## CSS: Add foundation modules

Initially, only necessary Foundation CSS(SASS) modules are added to the project. You can add any additional Foundation module by following those steps:

1. Navigate to `\src\css\theme.scss` file.
2. Just uncomment required module.
3. That's it. No more steps. It's pretty straightforward. Do we really need steps here in the first place?...

For example, you want to add a Foundation Card module. Then look for:

```
//@include foundation-card;
```

And just uncomment it and save the file. Prepros will handle the rest.

```
@include foundation-card;
```

## CCS: Edit existing custom modules

All custom CSS modules are located in `\src\css\modules\` folder. Those are [SASS](https://sass-lang.com/documentation) files (hence **.scss** extension), but you can write simple CSS there as well. Though it's better to use [SASS](https://sass-lang.com/documentation), as it's more compact and readable. Prepros then will convert it to minified CSS.

## CCS: Add custom modules

Add your custom CSS/SASS parts within `\src\css\modules\` folder as well. Then add those modules in `\src\css\theme.scss`.

For example, you want to add new CSS rules for pagination:

1. Create new file with **.scss** extension in `\src\css\modules\` folder like `\src\css\modules\pagination.scss`
2. Open `\src\css\theme.scss` and under `CUSTOM MODULES` title add the following line:

```
import 'modules/pagination'
```

_There is a list of different modules already, so you can add your module to the end of this list. Besides, note that no extension is required for **import** expression._

## JS: Add foundation modules

Initially, only necessary Foundation JS modules are added to the project. You can add any additional Foundation module by following those steps:

1. Navigate to `\src\js\theme.js` file.
2. Look for `// Require Foundation modules` line under which you'll see a list of "require"s. Those require modules from the Foundation NPM package.
3. Copy one of the "require" lines and replace the name of the module

Example:

```
...
require('foundation-sites/dist/js/plugins/foundation.sticky.min.js');
require('foundation-sites/dist/js/plugins/foundation.tabs.min.js');
require('foundation-sites/dist/js/plugins/foundation.dropdownMenu.min.js');
require('foundation-sites/dist/js/plugins/foundation.NEW_FOUNDATION_MODULE_NAME.min.js');
```

You can use [Foundation Docs](https://get.foundation/sites/docs/index.html) for reference. There is a **JavaScript Reference** section for modules that need JS to work.

**!!! Make sure that you require utility modules first.**

## JS: Edit existing custom modules

All custom JS modules are located in `\src\js\modules\` folder. You can just open any of them, edit and save. Prepros will handle the rest.

Classish structure was used for initial theme JS files:

```
import $ from 'jquery';

class ModuleName {
    constructor() {
        // Declare all variables below
        this.filter = $('#filters');
        this.secondVar;

        // Call all events
        this.events();
    }

    events() {
        this.filter.on('click', this.doSomethingWithFilter.bind(this)); // Bind Class (ModuleName) to the function
        $(document).on('click', '#filters select', e => this.selectDisplay(e)); // Don't bind Class, but event data instead.
    }

    // Methods below
    doSomethingWithFilter() {
        console.log('Filter is clicked!');
    }

    selectDisplay(e) {
        const target = $(e.target);
        ...
    }

    ...
}

export default ModuleName
```

## JS: Add custom modules

Add your custom JS modules within `\src\js\modules\` folder. Then require those modules in `\src\js\theme.js`.

1. Create file `ModuleName.js` in `\src\js\modules\`.
2. Open `\src\js\theme.js` file and under `// Import custom modules` line add the following code:

```
import ModuleName from "./modules/ModuleName" // Importing ModuleName Class from ModuleName.js file
```

3. Then in the same file look for `// Launch custom modules` line and add under it the following code:

```
var moduleName = new ModuleName(); // Initialize ModuleName class and keep result in moduleName variable.
```

**!!! Note how the variable's first letter isn't capitalized to differentiate it from the Class name.**

## Solutions

### "error: invalid path... warning: Clone succeeded, but checkout failed." in the command line while cloning the repo.

Try following commands to finilize the cloning:

```
git config --global core.protectNTFS false
git checkout -f HEAD
```
